+++
categories = []
date = "2016-01-09T16:03:58Z"
description = "My slides of an introductory presentation to Generators (ES2015) & Async Functions (ES2016)"
layout = "slides"
tags = ["presentation", "slides"]
title = "Introduction to Generators (ES2015) & Async Functions (ES2016)"
type = "_presentation"
social_image = "https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/736x/d1/28/48/d12848b860d8a8607e635044c0066da1.jpg"
+++
class: center, middle

# Generators & Async Functions

by Ivan Fraixedes

Twitter/Github: @ifraixedes

[ivan.fraixed.es](http://ivan.fraixed.es)

---

class: middle

# Agenda

#### 1. Introduction to Generators Functions
#### 2. Introduction to Async Functions
#### 3. Using Generators as Async functions


---

# Generators Functions

Generators has been standardized in EcmaScript 2015
Function generators can be created in two manners

* with the `function *` declaration (syntax);
  ```js
    function* myGenerator(...) {...}
  ```
* using GeneratorFucntions constructor. The performance is worse because they are parsed a the execution time than with the reset of the code; they are a similar thing as `eval()`
  ```js
  // GeneratorFunction is NOT a global object
  var GeneratorFunction = Object.getPrototypeOf(function*(){}).constructor
  var g = new GeneratorFunction("a", "yield a * 2");
  ```

???

We can think in generators as __functions witch can be exited at specified points of the execution and continue from the last exited point__ when they are called again keeping the context between them as a normal function does during its execution.

Generators return values before they finish using the statement __`yield`__; iterators execution finish when they reach the end of the "function" or execute "return" as an usual function does.

There is also the statement __`yield*`__ to subrogate the execution to other generator; hence when that happens the caller generator give the flow to the callee generator and when it finishes the caller follows from that point.

Generators can be used to create iterables and get the same result in easy way than complex iterators; however this is out the context of this talk.

---

class: center, middle

# Generators Function Demo

---

# Async Functions

Async functions is a proposal for EcmaScript 2016, which is in draft.

Async functions are normal functions which can be suspended to await for promises.

The syntax looks as
  ```js
  async function myAsyncFunc(...) {
    // do whatever
    let result = await iReturnAPromise();
    // more things todo after the promise is resolved
  }
  ```

---
class: center, middle

# Async Functions Demo

---
class: center, middle

# Generators as Async functions

We can use __Function Generators__ as __Async Functions__, so we can think __Async Functions__ as syntax sugar

__Let's see how__

???
http://www.ecma-international.org/ecma-262/6.0/#sec-generator.prototype.next

---

class: center, middle


# Credits

[Mozilla Developers Network](https://developer.mozilla.org/)

[Async functions proposal](http://tc39.github.io/ecmascript-asyncawait/)

---

# Resources

Presentation: [goo.gl/ZKSkTV](http://blog.fraixed.es/slides/bcnjs-201601)

Source code (gist): [goo.gl/4ZqC6z](https://gist.github.com/ifraixedes/62a7155b87e7e7d0c71d)

--
count: false
# Feedback

I'd love __to hear from you__, say hi! on

Twitter: @ifraixedes

email: ivan@fraixed.es

Or any other way that you know that you can reach me!
--
count: false
<p style="color:red;font-weight:bold;font-size:1.3em;text-align:center">I'm currently accepting projects<p>
